Madison Staine:
Training Report August 2025
STRENGTHS:
Move opponents with good placement in the corners.
Forehand cross court.
Angles Shots to open the court.
Backhand Approach.
WEAKNESSES:
Approach shot with forehand short balls recognition and execution.
Needs more pace and power in the backhand.
Explosive footwork to set up quicker to the balls and move forward to the drop shots taking adjustment steps when getting closer to the balls.
Recover to the right position, stay away from no mans land.
2nd serve technique, Pace on her serve.

FOREHAND:
Backswing needs to place the racquet head lower at level with her head.
Extending the elbow after contact point. Lead with the edge of the Racket. Hit the ball In front.
Needs more coil / rotation as she takes the racquet back.
Uncoil activating the right hip.
Elbow at contact needs to be further away from the body.


BACKHAND:
Power starts with a strong and powerful coil and preparation with the entire body and not just her arm / racquet.
The position of the racquet in the backswing needs to be highest to generate racquet speed. Drop the head of the racket in a straight line.
Use the legs and get body weight to uncoil to contact and extend thru the shot.
Keep the right elbow further away from the body as she follow thru and finishing the shot.
SERVE:
Rotate with the hips to start the motion instead of relying mainly with the upper body and arm/racquet.
Separate the motion into 2 parts: coil + uncoil.
Needs to extend fully to contact (right arm to ear to improve right position to the arm to contact the ball).
Keep the head of the Racket closed. Use pronation on the follow thru. 

NOTE:
Madison is super athletic and needs to work in her fitness and strength training so she can become a more aggressive and powerful player.

With higher intensity and more aggression in her game she will build more confidence which will translate in many more wins and success in her tournaments.

She needs to go for winning shots on important points without being afraid to miss.